Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
jdk contains everything that is in JRE.
components are
The Runtime Interpreter is a computer program that directly executes, i.e. performs, instructions written in a programming.
The Compiler is a program that takes the text file work of a developer and compiles it into a platform-independent java file.
The Applet Viewer is a standalone command-line program, which is generally used by developers for testing their applets before deploying to website.
The Debugger is used to test and debug other programs.
The Class File Disassembler is javap command that disassembles a class file.
The Header and Stub File Generator are used by c programs to reference an object's instance variable from native source code.
The Documentation Generator is a programming tool that generates software documentation intended for programmers.

What is IDE?
A.integrated development environment which is use by the developer to develop, testing program.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
eclipse, intellij, netbeans, blue j, jgrasp and etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?
Blueprint of an object.

What is object?
An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
The main method is the entry point of a java application.

Why main is static?
this is because the main is called by JVM before any objects are made.we use static sometime for user defined methods
so that we need not to make objects.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
java.lang.object is superclass of all class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. class path is an environment variable which is used by the java
compiler to find the path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class
(interface is not even considered as a class.)

what is Access Specifier?
An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine
which elements of a program are allowed to access a specific variable or other piece of data.

What is OOP ?
 Object-oriented programming (OOP) refers to a type of computer programming (software design) in which programmers define not only the data type of a data structure,
 but also the types of operations (functions) that can be applied to the data structure.

 Define each feature of java OOP.
.
 Data Abstraction refer to the act of representing essential features without including background details or explanation
 Encapsulation is the wrapping up of data and functions into single unit is known as encapsulation
 Inheritance is the process where one acquire the properties of another class.
 Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many form.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A Java package organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains
 and java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API?
  Application Programming Interface
  Name list of API that you have used so far.
  Google
  Twitter
  Facebook
  Yahoo
  ebay
  Tumblr
  Instagram

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
When one class extends more than one classes then this is called multiple inheritance. ...
Java doesn't allow multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading happens with methods
with the same name but different signature.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception (or exceptional event) is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. When an Exception occurs
the normal flow of the program is disrupted and the program/Application terminates abnormally,
which is not recommended, therefore, these exceptions are to be handled.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static in Java is an important keyword and used to create static method, static class and static variable in Java.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final keyword in java. final keyword is used in different contexts. First of all, final is a non-access
modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.Following are different contexts where final is used.
When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place
important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
 A constructor is an instance method that usually has the same name as the class, and can be used to set the
 values of the members of an object, either to default or to user-defined values.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.


If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
When the object is created, Java calls the constructor first. Any code you have in your constructor will then get executed.
You don't need to make any special calls to a constructor method - they happen automatically when you create a new object.
Constructor methods take the same name as the class.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. The various usages of 'THIS' keyword in Java are as follows:
It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to
invoke or initiate current class constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent ...
We could access maxSpeed of base class in sublcass using super keyword. you can use super in three different ways.


What is JVM stand for ? Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
No, JVMs are not platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
version 10.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM.
It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.
JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development tools.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
The JRE is the environment within which the virtual machine runs. JRE is the container, JVM is the content.

What is compile time and run time?
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program.
This compilation process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. ...
The terms "runtime" and "compile time" are often used by programmers to refer to different types of errors.

What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
Java Memory Management, with its built-in garbage collection, is one of the language's finest achievements.
It allows developers to create new objects without worrying explicitly
about memory allocation and deallocation, because the garbage collector automatically reclaims memory for reuse.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable, if you try to alter their values, another object gets created, whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder
are mutable so they can change their values. Thread-Safety Difference:
The difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuffer is thread-safe.

What is Singleton class?
a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
The rule is, when a variable is marked as transient, its object won't be serialized during serialization.
A transient variable is a variable that may not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Only difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked at first but, in do...
while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.


What is Enum?
A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
More precisely, a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class.


What is Iterator?
 Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections framework. Iterators differ from Enumerations in two ways:
 Iterators allow the caller to remove elements from the underlying collection during the iteration with well-defined semantics.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer? its the same.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. ...
Another reason of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
 Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?


What is JIT stands for?
Just In time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. ... During the garbage collection
objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables
and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
 reflection allows inspection of classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime without knowing the names of the interfaces, fields, methods at compile time.
 It also allows instantiation of new objects and invocation of methods.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.
Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
 Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute
 a synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
is a platform for developing software applications. ... For example, a framework may include predefined classes and functions
that can be used to process input, manage hardware devices, and interact with system software

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit , Mockito, Selenium, Testing and Mocha

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Major difference in TestNG and JUnit test frameworks is their scope. I suggest to use TestNG as core unit test framework for Java project, because TestNG is more advance in
parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control. ... A Java class has a dependency on
another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Method overloading is the best example of static binding.
Method overriding is the best example of dynamic binding.








